[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Services are a concept
that was added late in the 1.x series of
Ember releases.
And they're an effort to hold
long-living application state and
shared application functionality
in a place that is flexible.
And where you can use dependency injection
to make it available appropriately without
risk of polluting your application.
So, they are created when
your application starts up,
and they're different than other objects
in the Ember world, controllers aside.
In that, everything is sharing
this single instance, right?
Everything is sharing this one service.
They live in the /app/services folder.
And other than that they're
very simple objects, and
it's really up to you to
customize it as you see fit.
So a great use of the service would be for
authentication.
You could have a service that would
actually make a request to an API to
authenticate a user.
And then store the current user as
an object on the service itself so
that it could be made
available to templates and
components, which need to
render an avatar on the screen.
It can be made available to parts of
your application that send API requests,
so they would pass credentials along.
And they could be made
available to routes so
that you would know if you have to kick an
unauthenticated user out to a login page.
But this is a great example where you have
like one concern which is current user and
the need to authenticate someone.
But you have many flavors of object
that need to know about this thing, and
you could use a global to do this.
You could just make something
available to everyone but
that becomes a maintenance nightmare.
And this really lets you be very
specific that this route should
have access to this and
this component and nothing else.
>> Mike North: So
the way you add a service to an object,
you essentially add a service
as a property to an object.
And you just use this Ember.inject.service
method, and what it will return is,
this is essentially a computer property
which we're going to get into in a second.
But it lets you directly access
whatever's on the service from within the
object that this thing is injected onto.
So the name is optional and
I will, in my, I'll
do a little pre-example before we pose our
problem just to illustrate how this works,
there's a nice clean convention that makes
this thing really readable and easy.
And it's lazily evaluated,
which means that
only when you ask for
it is the value actually fetched, and
the work done to actually calculate
what needs to be calculated.
Services work on just
about any Ember object.
So, again, very flexible means of
sharing functionality and state.
And I'm actually gonna stop there
because there's not much to these
except the advised use of them, but
other than that it's a blank slate for
whatever specific functionality is needed.
>> Speaker 2: So they're asking, he's
currently using an initializer to store
and inject something like the system date.
Is this recommended to do in a service?
>> Mike North: Yes, so
the previous the old discouraged way
of doing things was to use another
object in Ember that is a singleton,
and here I am talking about it again,
controllers.
And you would basically create
a controller and use an initializer,
which is something that you use to
customize the startup process of your app.
And it would essentially make it available
on a bunch of different objects.
The fact that you're creating a service
here, like Ember will do it for you,
Ember will start it up.
And instead of using an initializer
to inject this in various places,
you're actually gonna just,
as you define these various objects
that need to know about a service.
You will just say,
I've got this authentication service and
here it is and
it can be done at class construction time,
instead of at app start up time.
And it's a little nuanced but
in terms of reading through code and
understanding, you don't have to go and
check in on some separate piece of code,
is this other thing injecting
something on to me.
It's all available in this one object,
the things that have been injected
on to it, if that makes sense.
So, I can see in the source
code of the route
that I have access to authentication.
I don't have to look through a folder
of a bunch of initializers and
hunt down where someone
has operated on me.
So this is definitely
the advised way of doing it.
>> Mike North: All right.
>> Speaker 2: And then one other question,
can the services access the store?
>> Mike North: Good question.
I will have to investigate that one and
I will come back with the answer.
>> Speaker 3: If they don't
have it available but
you can use an initializer to
inject the store into a service?
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: But by default it
isn't available into the service.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: The store has
a service into a service?
>> Mike North: You have the store,
I'm not sure,
in it's current form,
whether the store is a service.
>> Speaker 3: The store is, in general.
>> Mike North: Okay, so you can inject-
>> Speaker 3: You can inject a service
into a service, and
you can inject the store as a service
into anything that you want to.
>> Mike North: Interesting.
Yeah, the idea is to get away from
initializers doing the injection itself,
and to really rely on the common
idiom of have the singleton.
It needs to be made available on objects.
And then there's the benefit of moving
the actual description of the injection
act itself and
the object that you're injecting on to.
So that you can see it and you can manage
it there rather than having to worry about
searching for some container string and
all of the hoops you have to jump through,
the old way of doing things.